Technical analysis is a widely recognised method of chart analysis aimed at forecasting future prices of stocks, currencies or commodities.

Technical analysis is based on 3 main principles:

1. The market discounts everything - the current market price takes into account all available information about a given security, 
the micro and macroeconomic situation as well as political and economic conditions.
2. Prices move in a trend - prices follow specific trends (upward, downward, horizontal) until there are clear signals indicating a trend reversal.
3. History repeats itself - technical analysis focuses on predicting future price movements based on history; this assumption is based on the repetition of certain patterns over time.

The most popular trend continuation formations:

Falling / rising three methods patterns
Rising three methods pattern - a tall green candle forms in an uptrend. The high candle is followed by a group of small-bodied candles that indicate that 
there is some resistance in the current trend. These candles are generally red in color, but most importantly, all their bodies are within the swing 
range of the first tall green candle, and the shadows are also within the swing range. 
The opening of the last candle (usually the fifth in a row) is above the closing level of the previous correction day, and it closes at a new, maximum level.

Falling three methods pattern - there is a downtrend in the market which is reflected in the formation of a high red candle. During the next three sessions, candles with low bodies are formed, 
which are oriented in the opposite direction to the current trend. It is best if the candle bodies of the correction period are green. 
The bodies of all these candlesticks remain within the range of the first red candlestick. 
The opening of the next and last candle of this formation should take place near the closing level of the previous session, and it's closing at a new, minimum level.

The most popular trend reversal formations:

Bullish / bearish engulfing pattern
Hammer
Shooting star 
Morning / evening star